we live our lives in the sunlight of
assumptions about the future and those
assumptions may be bright or they may be
dim but passing overhead always are the
shadows of those assumptions we had
about our past that we still have to
question where we wonder if those
assumptions in our past might have been
false if everything today might have
been different if we take in some other
road option or strategy that's why I
think it's so important to question and
assail this assumption about
professional health it's not just that
people will kind of insult you and
harass you with this assertion like oh
you can get professional help get
professional help whatever the problem
is you can get professional help in
examining your own personal history your
past what you did right and what you did
wrong in your own experience there's
this horrible haunting effect of looking
back and imagining or assuming that you
could have gotten professional help and
professional help I mean obviously most
people assume you mean psychiatry or
psychotherapy I would say it even
extends to things like applying for
welfare you know applying for some kind
of government assistance you can live
your life thinking oh everything would
have been different if when I finished
college I'd filled out that form and
gotten that assistance and then ten
years later you find out you know that's
not the way it works if you'd filled out
the form you would have been refused
there was no option you know the first
time I went to university I never asked
for any help from any of the job
counselors career counselors or the the
office that gives you special
opportunities the office that gives you
scholarships and this kind of thing
bursaries and then the second time I
went to university I was okay I'm not
making that mistake again this time I'm
gonna go I'm gonna knock on every door
I'm gonna ask for professional help from
whoever can possibly give me
professional help up this campus and you
know what I found out
behind those doors there was no
professional help in one case in two
cases they literally didn't even offer
the help that was written on the doll
[Laughter]
Hannya on Sunday I called the outpatient
clinic which is part of that hospital
but I called them and I was just like hi
um so I talked to the emergency room
like on Thursday and they said to call
you and I feel like I need help please
like what can I do and then I talked to
the manager of that ward like the
outpatient ward oh I don't remember
anything more discouraging than that
honestly she was like first of all we
can't help you because you need to be
sober and you need to be sober for three
months and as we can see you have an
addiction so um that's a no from us but
then I was just like really like I was
getting really pissed off I was just
like I mean you're taking something away
from me but you're not giving anything
back and like there's like no way that I
can cope this like cope with this on my
own and like why are you doing this why
aren't you helping me why this why that
like do I really need to come there and
just [ __ ] try and kill myself in
front of you or like what like I always
feel like I fall in between the chairs
um cuz like I'm not suicidal enough to
be hospitalized but I'm I'm too crazy to
just be in an outpatient clinic yeah my
core belief is that I do not believe I
can get help because I am [ __ ] up to
the point that there is no help so yeah
I was really vocal about it on my
Instagram and everyone said go get help
go get help Enya you deserve it and blah
blah blah I was just like you know what
[ __ ] this I [ __ ] deserve help you
know I mean yeah see they make you leave
me I went to a mental hospital to the
emergency room which I knew they cannot
do anything to help me like nothing
whatsoever and I knew that I still went
I went with my friend Adam you stayed
with me for four and a half hours just
waiting for someone to
me it was so frustrating because I just
hate the way the psychiatric system like
the public system just looks at people I
talked to the psychiatrist she was
actually really nice and she said at the
beginning of the thing she said there's
nothing we can do to help you there's
nothing we can do we can like the max we
can do is give you a pill or like
whatever like a xanax or something
they also said like we cannot
hospitalized you because you're not
suicidal enough because you don't have
like a concrete idea of how you're gonna
do it and all that stuff so we can
hospitalize you not that I wanted to be
hospitalized
I just wanted to maybe get like some
more intensive help not just like one
session just you know maybe like an
outpatient treatment or something like
that so um yeah they said they cannot do
that they can only give me a pill and I
said no thank you
and they talked to me for a bit and they
said you seem I mean it's so funny it's
like every time I go to these places and
I talk to professionals it's like
everyone looks at me and they're like
shocked that I have a degree and that
I'm like I act normal and I talk normal
and I'm smart and you know I make great
eye contact and I'm great with like
social skills and all that stuff and
they're just like they are confused too
as to why am i there I think there's a
really important message buried in this
much longer video of any uh rambling
about her personal life nothing wrong
with that it's good come on YouTube
ramble about your personal life but it's
a long long video and I've picked out
just three minutes here it still feels
like a long time that was just three
minutes of Enya letting you know that
when she finally broke down and sought
professional help asked for professional
help
her experience was guess what there is
no professional level I think a lot of
us grow up with the delusion that if we
just dial the numbers 900
on our telephone if you just phone the
police that there's some kind of
infinite source of expertise that's
going to come to your doorstep and the
reality is if you call 9-1-1 if you call
the police all they can do is send a man
with a gun
if you submit yourself to the authority
of a psychiatrist or a psychotherapist
again especially for me now at age 40 I
may be asking for help from someone who
knows less than I do under many
different headings that are salient to
the situation of course they're going to
know less about my life oh they're gonna
expect me to sit down explain all the
stuff to them they may not know how to
help me and of course the the most
negative effect this this assumption the
assumption that all you need to do is
call the authorities and they'll send
help is that the other people in your
life who could help the other people who
know you who know what your problems are
know which situations those people who
could make that effort help they won't
help because they'll take a step back
and say oh let's it let's let the
professionals help you should start with
the assumption which is more often than
not true that there is no professional
help and then beyond that the type of
help we're talking about here it's more
like a home-cooked meal there's no
reason to assume that if you telephone a
pizza company that they can bake bread
back you can the type of help that the
people who know you can provide may be
much better than whatever help you can
get from those authorities if there's
someone in your life who ends up
committing suicide don't be the person
who says oh if only they had gotten
professional help
don't recriminate thing oh if only I had
phoned the authorities and got in the
professional oh no the regret you're
gonna have for the rest of your life if
your friend commits suicide is that you
didn't roll up your sleeves and try to
help them yourself there is no
professional help we have to help one
another we have to care for one another
we have to love one another
the invention of the bureaucracy of
government and the professionalization
of psychotherapy does not take that
burden off of you and you and you and me
- okay
it doesn't take the burden off of us and
I think that's the most insidious
element of this cultural assumption that
somewhere just out of sight the police
and the ambulance company have a crew of
psychotherapists who can solve
everyone's problems all right
we amongst ourselves have to pool
whatever talents we've got whatever
compassion we've got whatever sympathy
we've got whatever powers of analysis
we've got we have to try to understand
our own problems we have to try to help
one another you can buy factory-made
socks or you can knit your own socks you
can order in pizza delivered to your
door by a corporation or you can roll
your own dough bake your own bread make
your own pizza they're not the same
thing but that inequality the difference
between the mass-produced sock and the
hand knitted sock with this kind of help
that we're talking about that inequality
is much more extreme all right maybe you
imagine that in a perfect world there's
somebody called the psychiatrist or a
psychotherapist or a career counsellor
or a social worker who can help you in
ways that your parents can't your
friends can't your casual acquaintances
on the internet can't all right but this
is a very imperfect world and what
you're gonna find when you I mean go out
try go out do what I did at my
university knock on every door ask for
help do it with an open mind and a clear
analytical mindset but when you do what
you're gonna find is as you open those
doors one after another there is no
professional help the onus is on us to
help one another and to help ourselves